---
layout: page
title: "bbb-conf"
category: admin
date: 2015-04-05 16:01:50
redirect_from: "/install/bbb-conf.html"
---

# Introduction

`bbb-conf` is BigBlueButton's configuration tool.  It makes it easily for you to modify parts of BigBlueButton's configuration, manage the BigBlueButton system (start/stop/reset), and troubleshooting potential problems with your setup.  

As a historical note, this tool was created early in the development of BigBlueButton.  Early on in its development as BigBlueButton grew, the core developers wrote this tool to quickly update BigBlueButton's configuration files for setup and testing.

`bbb-conf` is located in `/usr/bin/bbb-conf`.  If you are a developer, we recommend taking look through the source for `bbb-conf` (it's a shell script) as it help you understand the various components of BigBlueButton and how they work together (see also [Architecture Overview](/overview/architecture.html)).

# Options

If you type `bbb-conf` with no parameters it will print out the list of available options.

~~~
$ bbb-conf 
BigBlueButton Configuration Utility - Version 1.0.N

   bbb-conf [options]

Configuration:
   --version                        Display BigBlueButton version (packages)
   --setip <host>                   Set IP/hostname for BigBlueButton
   --setsecret <secret>             Change the shared secret in bigbluebutton.properties

Monitoring:
   --check                          Check configuration files and processes for problems
   --debug                          Scan the log files for error messages
   --watch                          Scan the log files for error messages every 2 seconds
   --secret                         View the URL and shared secret for the server
   --lti                            View the URL and secret for LTI (if installed)

Administration:
   --restart                        Restart BigBlueButton
   --stop                           Stop BigBlueButton
   --start                          Start BigBlueButton
   --clean                          Restart and clean all log files
   --zip                            Zip up log files for reporting an error

Testing:
   --disablewebrtc                  Disables WebRTC audio in the server
~~~

You run `bbb-conf` as a normal user.  If a particular command requires you to run BigBlueButton as root, it will output a message saying `you need to run this command as root`.  Below is an outline of the various commands.


### `--setip <hostname_or_ip>`

Sets the IP/Hostname for BigBlueButton's configuration.  For example, if your BigBlueButton server has the IP address of 192.168.0.211, you can change BigBlueButton's configuration files to use this IP address with the command


~~~
sudo bbb-conf --setip 192.168.0.211
~~~

or, if you want to use the hostname bbb.mybbbserver.com, then use the command

~~~
sudo bbb-conf --setip bbb.mybbbserver.com
~~~


### `--clean`
Restart BigBlueButton and clear all the log files during the restart.  This is good for debugging as it clears away previous errors in the log files.


### `--check`
Run a series of check on your current setup and report any potential problems.  Not all reported problems are actual issues.  For example, if you uses `--setip <hostname_or_IP>`, then `bbb-conf` will complain that the hostname does not match the server's IP, but that's fine as you configured the BigBlueButton server to listen on a hostname instead of IP address.


### `--debug`
Greps through the various log files for errors (such as exceptions in the Java log files for tomcat7 and red5).


### `--network`
This command shows you the number of active connections for port 80 (HTTP), 1935 (RTMP), and 9123 (Desktop sharing) for each remote IP address.

The main purpose of this command is to check for users that are tunnelling to the BigBlueButton server.  If you see a connected users that has no entries in 1935 or 9123, then that users is tunnelling (all their connections are going through port 80).


### `--secret`
Display the current security salt for the BigBlueButton API.  For example:

~~~
$ bbb-conf --secret

       URL: http://192.168.0.35/bigbluebutton/
      Salt: f6c72afaaae95faa28c3fd90e39e7e6e

~~~


### `--setup-samba`
Recommend only running this command if your developing BigBlueButton on a local VM and want to mount the development directory using Windows file sharing. 


### `--setsecret <new_secret>`
Assign a new security secret for the BigBlueButton API.  This does not change the security secret for the API demos, so if you run this command and still want to use the API demos, you'll need to update the shared secret in `/var/lib/tomcat7/webapps/demo/bbb_api_conf.jsp`.


### `--start`
Start all the BigBlueButton processes.

### `--stop`
Stop all the BigBlueButton processes.


### `--watch`
Watch log files for error messages every 2 seconds.  Use this command after `sudo bbb-conf --clean` to clean out all the log files.


### `--zip`
Zip up log files for reporting an error.  This option is rarely used as it's often easier to use pastebin to share the log of the error message if you are, for example, posting to the bigbluebutton-dev mailing list.

