---
layout: page
title: "API"
category: dev
date: 2015-04-05 10:28:17
---



# Overview

This document describes the BigBlueButton API available for integration 3rd party applications.  This document includes updates to the API for BigBlueButton 0.9.0-beta, referred hereafter as 0.9.0.

The API is implemented with developer in mind. To make and API call a BigBlueButton, your 3rd party application makes HTTP requests to a URL.  All API calls include a checksum that signs the parameters with a shared secret (called salt by BigBlueButton).

The BigBlueButton server returns an XML response to all API calls.

The API implementation bigbluebutton-web component, which has been written using the Grails framework.

## Updates to API in BigBlueButton 0.9.0-beta


Updated API calls:
  * **join** - `configToken` can now reference a file in `/var/bigbluebutton/configs`
  * **create** - Added `moderatorOnlyMessage` to display message only visible to moderators. Added `autoStartRecording` and `allowStartStopRecording` to provide finer control over recordings.


# API Security Model
The BigBlueButton API provides a way to be secured so that third-party apps may make calls to it, but not allow other people (end users) to make similar calls to create their own meetings, etc.

The BigBlueButton API calls are almost all made server-to-server.  The built-in API examples with BigBlueButton give examples of using the API.  The API examples are an application (called demo) that runs as a webapp within tomcat6.  The webapp makes HTTP requests to the BigBlueButton server's API end point.  This endpoint is an application (called bigbluebutton) that is also a webapp running within tomcat6).

You can retrieve the API paramters (API endpoint and shared secret) using the command

```
bbb-conf --secret
```

Here's a sample return

```
       URL: http://test-install.blindsidenetworks.com/bigbluebutton/
    Secret: 8cd8ef52e8e101574e400365b55e11a6
```

**Note:** Older versions of BigBlueButton called the share secret a **salt** and used the command `bbb-conf --salt`.  The correct term is **shared secret**.  While the term salt is still prevalent in the code and examples, we'll be initiating the updating to the proper term **shared secret** in BigBlueButton 0.81 and continuing the migration in future versions.

You should not embed the shared secret witin a web page and make BigBlueButton API calls within JavaScript running within a browser.  An end user will be able to see this URL in their browser, extract it, and use it to create their own API calls, such as creating meetings outside the control of the 3rd party application.


## Configuration
The securitySalt (shared secret) is set in

```
   /var/lib/tomcat6/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties 
```

Look for the parameter

```
   securitySalt=<your_salt>
```

You can also retrieve it's value using the command

```
   bbb-conf --setsecret <new_shared_secret>
```


<font color='#FF0000'>**IMPORTANT: DO NOT ALLOW END USERS TO KNOW YOUR SHARED SECRET OR ELSE YOUR SECURITY WILL BE COMPROMISED.**</font>

## Usage

The implementation of this security model lies in ApiController.groovy. It entails creating a checksum out of the combination of the entire HTTP query string and a server-configured security token.

To use the security model, you must be able to create an SHA-1 checksum out of the call name *plus* the query string *plus* the shared secret that you configured on your server. To do so, follow these steps:

  1. Create the entire query string for your API call without the checksum parameter.
    * Example for create meeting API call: "name=Test+Meeting&meetingID=abc123&attendeePW=111222&moderatorPW=333444"
  1. Prepend the call name to your string
    * Example for above query string:
      * call name is "create"
      * String becomes: "createname=Test+Meeting&meetingID=abc123&attendeePW=111222&moderatorPW=333444"
  1. Now, append the shared secret to your string
    * Example for above query string:
      * shared secret is "639259d4-9dd8-4b25-bf01-95f9567eaf4b"
      * String becomes: "createname=Test+Meeting&meetingID=abc123&attendeePW=111222&moderatorPW=333444639259d4-9dd8-4b25-bf01-95f9567eaf4b"
  1. Now, find the SHA-1 sum for that string (implementation varies based on programming language).
    * he SHA-1 sum for the above string is: "1fcbb0c4fc1f039f73aa6d697d2db9ba7f803f17"
  1. Add a checksum parameter to your query string that contains this checksum.
    * Above example becomes: "name=Test+Meeting&meetingID=abc123&attendeePW=111222&moderatorPW=333444&checksum=1fcbb0c4fc1f039f73aa6d697d2db9ba7f803f17"

You **MUST** send this checksum with **EVERY** API call. Since end users do not know your shared secret, they can not fake calls to the server, and they can not modify your calls – since changing a single parameter name or value by only one character will completely change the checksum required to validate the call.

Implementations of the SHA-1 functionality exist in nearly all programming languages. Here are example methods or links to example implementations for various languages:

  * JavaScript (describes MD5 also): [http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/](http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/)
  * Java: [http://commons.apache.org/codec/](http://commons.apache.org/codec/)
    * You can use org.apache.commons.codec.digest.DigestUtilsandcall DigestUtils.shaHex(string + salt)
  * PHP: simply call sha(string + salt)
    * See [http://php.net/manual/en/function.sha1.php](http://php.net/manual/en/function.sha1.php)


## Error handling

All API calls make a best-effort attempt to return a properly formatted document that contains enough information for the user to be able to determine what the error is.

Errors are returned with a "returncode" value of "FAILED" and a "message" and "messageKey" value.  We will try very hard to keep the messageKey stable (unchanging) throughout the life of the API.  However, the "message" value is a plain text (english) value that may change with time.

You can use the messageKey to determine the type of error and look up internationalized text within your own system if needed.  For example, an invalid request may return an error message of "No conference with that meeting ID exists", but the messageKey is simple "invalidMeetingIdentifier".


# API Resources
## Administration

In the following section is described the administration calls

| Resource               | Description |
|:-----------------------|:------------|
| `create`               | Creates a new meeting. |
| `getDefaultConfigXML`  | Gets the default config.xml (these settings configure the BigBlueButton client for each user). |
| `setConfigXML`         | Add a custom config.xml to an existing meeting. |
| `join`                 | Join a new user to an existing meeting. |
| `end`                  | Ends meeting. |

## Monitoring

In the following section is described the monitoring calls

| Resource           | Description |
|:-------------------|:------------|
| `isMeetingRunning` | Checks whether if an specified meeting is running. |
| `getMeetings`      | Get a list of the Meetings. |
| `getMeetingInfo`   | Get the details of a Meeting. |

## Recording

| Resource            | Description |
|:--------------------|:------------|
| `getRecordings`     | Get a list of recordings. |
| `publishRecordings` | Enables to publish or unpublish a recording. |
| `deleteRecordings`  | Deletes a existing Recording |


# API Calls

The following response parameters are standard to every call and may be returned from any call.

**Parameters:**

| **Param Name**  | **Required / Optional** | **Type** | **Description** |
|:----------------|:------------------------|:---------|:----------------|
| `checksum`      | Varies                  | String   | <p>See the **Security** section for more details on the usage for this parameter. </p> <p>This is basically an SHA-1 hash of callName + queryString + securitySalt. The security salt will be configured into the application at deploy time. If a security salt is present, all calls to the API must include the checksum parameter. </p>|

**Response:**

| **Param Name**   | **When Returned** | **Type** | **Description** |
|:-----------------|:------------------|:---------|:----------------|
| `returncode`     | Always            | String   | <p>Indicates whether the intended function was successful or not. Always one of two values:</p> <p>FAILED – there was an error of some sort – look for the message and messageKey for more information. Note that if the returncode is FAILED, the call-specific response parameters marked as “always returned” will not be returned. They are only returned as part of successful responses.</p> <p>SUCCESS – the call succeeded – the other parameters that are normally associated with this call will be returned.</p>|
| `message`        | Sometimes         | String   | <p>A message that gives additional information about the status of the call. A message parameter will always be returned if the returncode was FAILED. A message may also be returned in some cases where returncode was SUCCESS if additional information would be helpful.</p> |
| `messageKey`     | Sometimes         | String   | <p>Provides similar functionality to the message and follows the same rules. However, a message key will be much shorter and will generally remain the same for the life of the API whereas a message may change over time. If your third party application would like to internationalize or otherwise change the standard messages returned, you can look up your own custom messages based on this messageKey.</p> |


## create

Creates a BigBlueButton meeting, according to the parameters passed.  The create call is idempotent: you can call it multiple times with the same parameters without side effects.  One benefit is this simplifies the logic for joining a user into a session: your application can always call create before returning the join URL.   This way, regardless of the order in which users join, the meeting will always exist but won't be empty.  The BigBlueButton server will automatically remove empty that are created but have never had any users after a number of minutes specified by `defaultMeetingCreateJoinDuration`, which is defined in `bigbluebutton.properties`. 

**Resource URL:**

[http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum]](http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>])

**Parameters:**

<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required / Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> name              </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A name for the meeting.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Required                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A meeting ID that can be used to identify this meeting by the third party application.  This must be unique to the server that you are calling: different active meetings can not have the same meeting ID.  If you supply a non-unique meeting ID (a meeting is already in progress with the same meeting ID), then if the other parameters in the create call are identical, the create call will succeed (but will receive a warning message in the response).  The create call is idempotent: calling multiple times does not have any side effect.  This enables a third party applications to avoid checking if the meeting is running and always call create before joining each user.  Meeting IDs should only contain upper/lower ASCII letters, numbers, dashes, or underscores.  A good choice for the meeting ID is to generate a <a href='http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Globally_unique_identifier'>GUID</a> value, this all but guarantees that different meetings will not have the same meetingID.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> attendeePW        </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The password that will be required for attendees to join the meeting. This is optional, and if not supplied, BBB will assign a random password.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> moderatorPW       </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The password that will be required for moderators to join the meeting or for certain administrative actions (i.e. ending a meeting). This is optional, and if not supplied, BBB will assign a random password.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> welcome           </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A welcome message that gets displayed on the chat window when the participant joins. You can include keywords (<code>%%CONFNAME%%</code>, <code>%%DIALNUM%%</code>, <code>%%CONFNUM%%</code>) which will be substituted automatically. You can set a default welcome message on <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bigbluebutton-web/grails-app/conf/bigbluebutton.properties'>bigbluebutton.properties</a></p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> dialNumber        </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The dial access number that participants can call in using regular phone. You can set a default dial number on <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bigbluebutton-web/grails-app/conf/bigbluebutton.properties'>bigbluebutton.properties</a></p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> voiceBridge       </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>Voice conference number that participants enter to join the voice conference. The default pattern for this is a 5-digit number, because in the default Asterisk configuration, this is the PIN that a dial-in user must enter to join the conference.  If you want to change this pattern, you have to edit /etc/asterisk/bbb_extensions.conf.  When using the default setup, we recommend you always pass a 5 digit voiceBridge parameter -- and have it begin with the digit '7' if you are using the default FreeSWITCH setup. Finally, if you don't pass a value for voiceBridge, then users will not be able to join a voice conference for the session. (see FAQ entry <a href='FAQ#Users_do_not_appear_in_the_listeners_window.md'>Users do not appear in listeners window</a>).</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> webVoice          </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>Voice conference alphanumberic that participants enter to join the voice conference.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> logoutURL         </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The URL that the BigBlueButton client will go to after users click the OK button on the 'You have been logged out message'.  This overrides, the value for <code>bigbluebutton.web.loggedOutURL</code> if defined in <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bigbluebutton-web/grails-app/conf/bigbluebutton.properties'>bigbluebutton.properties</a></p> <p><font color='#FF0000'>.</font></p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> record            </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>Setting ‘record=true’ instructs the BigBlueButton server to record the media and events in the session for later playback. Available values are true or false. Default value is false. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> duration          </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> Number      </td><td> <p>The duration parameter allows to specify the number of minutes for the meeting's length. When the length of the meeting reaches the duration, BigBlueButton automatically ends the meeting. The default is 0, which means the meeting continues until the last person leaves or an end API calls is made with the associated meetingID.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> meta<b></td><td> Optional</b></td><td> String      </td><td> <p>You can pass one or more metadata values for create a meeting. These will be stored by BigBlueButton and later retrievable via the getMeetingInfo call and getRecordings. Examples of meta parameters are meta_Presenter, meta_category, meta_LABEL, etc.  All parameters are converted to lower case, so meta_Presenter would be the same as meta_PRESENTER. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> moderatorOnlyMessage </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>Display a message to all moderators in the public chat. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> autoStartRecording </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> Boolean (default false)</td><td> <p>Automatically starts recording when first user joins. NOTE: Don't set to autoStartRecording =false and allowStartStopRecording=false as the user won't be able to record. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> allowStartStopRecording</td><td> Optional                   </td><td> Boolean (default true)</td><td> <p>Allow the user to start/stop recording. This means the meeting can start recording automatically (autoStartRecording=true) with the user able to stop/start recording from the client. </p> </td></tr>
<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?name=Test&meetingID=test01&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?name=Test&amp;meetingID=test01&amp;checksum=1234</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?name=Test&meetingID=test01&moderatorPW=mp&attendeePW=ap&checksum=wxyz'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?name=Test&amp;meetingID=test01&amp;moderatorPW=mp&amp;attendeePW=ap&amp;checksum=wxyz</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?name=Test&meetingID=test01&moderatorPW=mp&attendeePW=ap&meta_presenter=joe&meta_category=education&checksum=abcd'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/create?name=Test&amp;meetingID=test01&amp;moderatorPW=mp&amp;attendeePW=ap&amp;meta_presenter=joe&amp;meta_category=education&amp;checksum=abcd</a></a></li></ul></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt; <br>
	&lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt; <br>
    &lt;meeting&gt; <br>
        &lt;meetingID&gt;Test&lt;/meetingID&gt; <br>
        &lt;createTime&gt;1308591802&lt;/createTime&gt; <br>
        &lt;attendeePW&gt;ap&lt;/attendeePW&gt; <br>
        &lt;moderatorPW&gt;mp&lt;/moderatorPW&gt; <br>
        &lt;hasBeenForciblyEnded&gt;false&lt;/hasBeenForciblyEnded&gt; <br>
        &lt;messageKey&gt;createSuccess&lt;/messageKey&gt; <br>
        &lt;message&gt;Meeting has been create&lt;/message&gt; <br>
    &lt;/meeting&gt; <br>
&lt;/response&gt; <br>
</code></pre>

### Preupload Slides
You can now preupload slides within the create call. You can specify an URL for BigBlueButton to download and process the slides, or you can embed the slides in base64 as part of the POST request. For use the preupload slides part:<br>
<br>
<ul><li>You have to send a HTTP POST request (by default, the total size of the POST request can't exceed 2MB, so embedding very large slides won't work).<br>
</li><li>The URL Resource has to be the same as the previously described.<br>
</li><li>In the body part, you would append a simple XML like the following with the presentation to upload:<br>
<pre><code>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt; <br>
&lt;modules&gt; <br>
    &lt;module name="presentation"&gt; <br>
        &lt;document url="http://www.samplepdf.com/sample.pdf" /&gt; <br>
        &lt;document name="sample-presentation.pdf"&gt;JVBERi0xLjQKJ....<br>
          [clipped here]<br>
          ....0CiUlRU9GCg==<br>
        &lt;/document&gt; <br>
    &lt;/module&gt; <br>
&lt;/modules&gt; <br>
</code></pre></li></ul>

For more information about the preupload slides check the following <a href='http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev/browse_thread/thread/d36ba6ff53e4aa79'>link</a>. For a complete example of the preupload slides check the following demos: <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bbb-api-demo/src/main/webapp/demo7.jsp'>demo7</a> and <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bbb-api-demo/src/main/webapp/demo8.jsp'>demo8</a>.<br>
<br>
<br><br>

## join
<p>Joins a user to the meeting specified in the meetingID parameter.</p>

<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required/Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> fullName          </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The full name that is to be used to identify this user to other conference attendees.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The meeting ID that identifies the meeting you are attempting to join.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> password          </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The password that this attendee is using. If the moderator password is supplied, he will be given moderator status (and the same for attendee password, etc)</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> createTime        </td><td> Optional                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>NEW in 0.80</p><p><p>Third-party apps using the API can now pass createTime parameter (which was created in the create call), BigBlueButton will ensure it matches the ‘createTime’ for the session.  If they differ, BigBlueButton will not proceed with the join request. This prevents a user from reusing their join URL for a subsequent session with the same meetingID.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> userID            </td><td> Optional                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>NEW in 0.7</p><p>An identifier for this user that will help your application to identify which person this is.  This user ID will be returned for this user in the getMeetingInfo API call so that you can check </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> webVoiceConf      </td><td> Optional                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>If you want to pass in a custom voice-extension when a user joins the voice conference using voip. This is useful if you want to collect more info in you Call Detail Records about the user joining the conference. You need to modify your /etc/asterisk/bbb-extensions.conf to handle this new extensions. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> configToken       </td><td> Optional                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The token returned by a setConfigXML API call.  This causes the BigBlueButton client to load the config.xml associated with the token (not the default config.xml)  </td></tr>
<tr><td> avatarURL         </td><td> Optional                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The link for the user's avatar to be displayed when displayAvatar in config.xml is set to true.  </td></tr>
<tr><td> redirectClient    </td><td> Optional (Experimental)  </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The default behaviour of the JOIN API is to redirect the browser to the Flash client when the JOIN call succeeds. There have been requests if it's possible to embed the Flash client in a "container" page and that the client starts as a hidden DIV tag which becomes visible on the successful JOIN. Setting this variable to FALSE will not redirect the browser but returns an XML instead whether the JOIN call has succeeded or not. The third party app is responsible for displaying the client to the user. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> clientURL         </td><td> Optional (Experimental)  </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>Some third party apps what to display their own custom client. These apps can pass the URL containing the custom client and when redirectClient is not set to false, the browser will get redirected to the value of clientURL </p> </td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?meetingID=test01&password=mp&fullName=John&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?meetingID=test01&amp;password=mp&amp;fullName=John&amp;checksum=1234</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?meetingID=test01&password=ap&fullName=Mark&checksum=wxyz'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?meetingID=test01&amp;password=ap&amp;fullName=Mark&amp;checksum=wxyz</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?meetingID=test01&password=ap&fullName=Chris&createTime=273648&checksum=abcd'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/join?meetingID=test01&amp;password=ap&amp;fullName=Chris&amp;createTime=273648&amp;checksum=abcd</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
There is no XML response for this call if it is properly formatted.  You should simply redirect the user to the call URL, and they will be entered into the meeting.<br>
<br>
<p><font color='#FF0000'>NOTE: there is the possibility that a user is sent to a join URL that is invalid right now.  For instance, if the client application forms the URL incorrectly, or sends the user to join a meeting that hasn't been created, then the user will end up seeing the XML that would be returned as an error.  We need to figure out a better way of handling this.</font></p>

<br /><br />

isMeetingRunning
<p>This call enables you to simply check on whether or not a meeting is running by looking it up with your meeting ID.</p>

<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/isMeetingRunning?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/isMeetingRunning?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required/Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The meeting ID that identifies the meeting you are attempting to check on.</p> </td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/isMeetingRunning?meetingID=test01&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/isMeetingRunning?meetingID=test01&amp;checksum=1234</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
   &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
   &lt;running&gt;true&lt;/running&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>

<p>running can be “true” or “false” that signals whether a meeting with this ID is currently running.</p>

<br /><br />

end
<p>Use this to forcibly end a meeting and kick all participants out of the meeting.</p>

<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/end?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/end?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required/Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The meeting ID that identifies the meeting you are attempting to end.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> password          </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The moderator password for this meeting. You can not end a meeting using the attendee password.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/end?meetingID=1234567890&password=mp&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/end?meetingID=1234567890&amp;password=mp&amp;checksum=1234</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
   &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
   &lt;messageKey&gt;sentEndMeetingRequest&lt;/messageKey&gt;<br>
   &lt;message&gt;<br>
   A request to end the meeting was sent. Please wait a few seconds, and then use the getMeetingInfo or isMeetingRunning API calls to verify that   it was ended.<br>
   &lt;/message&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>

<font color='#FF0000'>IMPORTANT NOTE:</font>  You should note that when you call end meeting, it is simply sending a request to the backend (Red5) server that is handling all the conference traffic.  That backend server will immediately attempt to send every connected client a logout event, kicking them from the meeting.  It will then disconnect them, and the meeting will be ended.  However, this may take several seconds, depending on network conditions.  Therefore, the end meeting call will return a success as soon as the request is sent.  But to be sure that it completed, you should then check back a few seconds later by using the getMeetingInfo or isMeetingRunning calls to verify that all participants have left the meeting and that it successfully ended.<br>
<br>
<font color='#FF0000'>TODO: In future iterations, this call will also mark a meeting that has ended so that it can not be immediately restarted with the same join meeting URLs that initially dropped users into the meeting.  This will protect against devious users restarting a meeting that you just kicked them from.</font>

<br /><br />

getMeetingInfo
<p>This call will return all of a meeting's information, including the list of attendees as well as start and end times.</p>

<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetingInfo?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetingInfo?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required/Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The meeting ID that identifies the meeting you are attempting to check on.</p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> password          </td><td> Required                 </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The moderator password for this meeting. You can not get the meeting information using the attendee password.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetingInfo?meetingID=test01&password=mp&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetingInfo?meetingID=test01&amp;password=mp&amp;checksum=1234</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
   &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
   &lt;meetingName&gt;Test&lt;/meetingName&gt;<br>
   &lt;meetingID&gt;test01&lt;/meetingID&gt;<br>
   &lt;createTime&gt;1315254777880&lt;/createTime&gt;<br>
   &lt;voiceBridge&gt;70775&lt;/voiceBridge&gt;<br>
   &lt;attendeePW&gt;ap&lt;/attendeePW&gt;<br>
   &lt;moderatorPW&gt;mp&lt;/moderatorPW&gt;<br>
   &lt;running&gt;true&lt;/running&gt;<br>
   &lt;recording&gt;false&lt;/recording&gt;<br>
   &lt;hasBeenForciblyEnded&gt;false&lt;/hasBeenForciblyEnded&gt;<br>
   &lt;startTime&gt;1315254785069&lt;/startTime&gt;<br>
   &lt;endTime&gt;0&lt;/endTime&gt;<br>
   &lt;participantCount&gt;1&lt;/participantCount&gt;<br>
   &lt;maxUsers&gt;20&lt;/maxUsers&gt;<br>
   &lt;moderatorCount&gt;1&lt;/moderatorCount&gt;<br>
   &lt;attendees&gt;<br>
      &lt;attendee&gt;<br>
         &lt;userID&gt;1&lt;/userID&gt;<br>
         &lt;fullName&gt;John Doe&lt;/fullName&gt;<br>
         &lt;role&gt;MODERATOR&lt;/role&gt;<br>
      &lt;/attendee&gt;<br>
   &lt;/attendees&gt;<br>
   &lt;metadata/&gt;<br>
   &lt;messageKey/&gt;<br>
   &lt;message/&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>

<p>
<font color='#FF0000'>TODO: add participant join / disconnect times to each attendee node.</font>
</p>

<br /><br />

getMeetings
<p>This call will return a list of all the meetings found on this server.</p>

<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetings?checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetings?checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
Now, In BigBlueButton 0.80 is not required to pass any parameter for this call.<br>
<br>
<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetings?checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getMeetings?checksum=1234</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
   &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
   &lt;meetings&gt;<br>
      &lt;meeting&gt;<br>
         &lt;meetingID&gt;test01&lt;/meetingID&gt;<br>
         &lt;meetingName&gt;Test&lt;/meetingName&gt;<br>
         &lt;createTime&gt;1315254777880&lt;/createTime&gt;<br>
         &lt;attendeePW&gt;ap&lt;/attendeePW&gt;<br>
         &lt;moderatorPW&gt;mp&lt;/moderatorPW&gt;<br>
         &lt;hasBeenForciblyEnded&gt;false&lt;/hasBeenForciblyEnded&gt;<br>
         &lt;running&gt;true&lt;/running&gt;<br>
      &lt;/meeting&gt;<br>
   &lt;/meetings&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>

<br /><br />

getRecordings
<p>Retrieves the recordings that are available for playback for a given<br>
meetingID (or set of meeting IDs).</p>
<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required / Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Optional                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A meeting ID for get the recordings. It can be a set of meetingIDs separate by commas. If the meeting ID is not specified, it will get ALL the recordings.</p> </td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?checksum=1234</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?meetingID=CS101&checksum=abcd'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?meetingID=CS101&amp;checksum=abcd</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?meetingID=CS101,CS102&checksum=wxyz'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getRecordings?meetingID=CS101,CS102&amp;checksum=wxyz</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
   &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt; <br>
   &lt;recordings&gt;<br>
      &lt;recording&gt; <br>
         &lt;recordID&gt;183f0bf3a0982a127bdb8161-1308597520&lt;/recordID&gt; <br>
         &lt;meetingID&gt;CS101&lt;/meetingID&gt; <br>
         &lt;name&gt;&lt;![CDATA[On-line session for CS 101]]&gt;&lt;/name&gt; <br>
         &lt;published&gt;false&lt;/published&gt; <br>
         &lt;startTime&gt;34545465656&lt;/startTime&gt; <br>
         &lt;endTime&gt;34575565465&lt;/endTime&gt; <br>
         &lt;metadata&gt; <br>
            &lt;title&gt;&lt;![CDATA[Test Recording]]&gt;&lt;/title&gt; <br>
            &lt;subject&gt;&lt;![CDATA[English 232 session]]&gt;&lt;/subject&gt; <br>
            &lt;description&gt;&lt;![CDATA[First Class]]&gt;&lt;/description&gt; <br>
            &lt;creator&gt;&lt;![CDATA[Fred Dixon]]&gt;&lt;/creator&gt; <br>
            &lt;contributor&gt;&lt;![CDATA[Richard Alam]]&gt;&lt;/contributor&gt; <br>
            &lt;language&gt;&lt;![CDATA[en_US]]&gt;&lt;/language&gt; <br>
         &lt;/metadata&gt; <br>
         &lt;playback&gt; <br>
            &lt;format&gt; <br>
               &lt;type&gt;simple&lt;/type&gt; <br>
               &lt;url&gt;http://server.com/simple/playback?recordID=183f0bf3a0982a127bdb8161-1...&lt;/url&gt; <br>
               &lt;length&gt;62&lt;/length&gt; <br>
            &lt;/format&gt; <br>
         &lt;/playback&gt;<br>
      &lt;/recording&gt; <br>
      &lt;recording&gt; <br>
         &lt;recordID&gt;183f0bf3a0982a127bdb8161-13085974450&lt;/recordID&gt; <br>
         &lt;meetingID&gt;CS102&lt;/meetingID&gt; <br>
         ... <br>
      &lt;/recording&gt; <br>
   &lt;/recordings&gt; <br>
   &lt;messageKey/&gt; <br>
   &lt;message/&gt; <br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>



<br><br>

publishRecordings
<p>Publish and unpublish recordings for a given recordID (or set of record IDs).</p>
<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/publishRecordings?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/publishRecordings?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required / Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> recordID          </td><td> Required                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A record ID for specify the recordings to apply the publish action. It can be a set of record IDs separated by commas. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> publish           </td><td> Required                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>The value for publish or unpublish the recording(s). Available values: true or false. </p> </td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/publishRecordings?recordID=record123&publish=true&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/publishRecordings?recordID=record123&amp;publish=true&amp;checksum=1234</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/publishRecordings?recordID=record123,recordABC&publish=true&checksum=wxyz'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/publishRecordings?recordID=record123,recordABC&amp;publish=true&amp;checksum=wxyz</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
    &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
    &lt;published&gt;true&lt;/published&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>



<br><br>

deleteRecordings
<p>Delete one or more recordings for a given recordID (or set of record IDs).</p>
<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/deleteRecordings?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/deleteRecordings?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required / Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> recordID          </td><td> Required                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A record ID for specify the recordings to delete. It can be a set of record IDs separated by commas. </p> </td></tr></tbody></table>

<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
<ul><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/deleteRecordings?recordID=record123&checksum=1234'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/deleteRecordings?recordID=record123&amp;checksum=1234</a></a>
</li><li><a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/deleteRecordings?recordID=record123,recordABC&checksum=wxyz'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/deleteRecordings?recordID=record123,recordABC&amp;checksum=wxyz</a></a></li></ul>

<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
    &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
    &lt;deleted&gt;true&lt;/deleted&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>

getDefaultConfigXML
<p>Retrieve the default config.xml.  This call enables a 3rd party application to get the current config.xml, modify it's parameters, and use setConfigXML to store it on the BigBlueButton server (getting a reference token to the new config.xml), then using the token in as a parmeter in the join URL to override the default config.xml.<br>
<br>
</p>
<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getDefaultConfigXML.xml?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/getDefaultConfigXML.xml?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>



setConfigXML
<p>Associate an custom config.xml file with the current session .  This call returns a token can later be passed as a parameter to a join URL.  When passed as a parameter, the BigBlueButton client will use the associated config.xml for the user (not the default config.xml).  This enables 3rd party applications to provide user-specific config.xml files.<br>
<br>
</p>
<p><b>Resource URL:</b></p>
<a href='#'><a href='http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/setConfigXML.xml?[parameters]&checksum=[checksum'>http://yourserver.com/bigbluebutton/api/setConfigXML.xml?[parameters]&amp;checksum=[checksum</a>]</a>

<p><b>Parameters:</b></p>
<table><thead><th> <b>Param Name</b> </th><th> <b>Required / Optional</b> </th><th> <b>Type</b> </th><th> <b>Description</b> </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> meetingID         </td><td> Required                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A meetingID to an active meeting. </p> </td></tr>
<tr><td> configXML         </td><td> Required                   </td><td> String      </td><td> <p>A valid config.xml file</p> </td></tr></tbody></table>


<p><b>Example Requests:</b></p>
The new config.xml is sent as part of a POST request.  The body of the POST request must contain two parameters: meetingID and configXML.  The parameters in the POST request must be signed using the BigBlueButton server's shared secret (salt).<br>
<br>
See <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bbb-api-demo/src/main/webapp/bbb_api.jsp#L306'>API source for making call to setConfgXML</a>


<p><b>Example Response:</b></p>
<pre><code>&lt;response&gt;<br>
    &lt;returncode&gt;SUCCESS&lt;/returncode&gt;<br>
    &lt;token&gt;asdfl234kjasdfsadfy&lt;/token&gt;<br>
&lt;/response&gt;<br>
</code></pre>

<br><br>

# API Sample Code

BigBlueButton provides API Sample Codes so you can integrated easily with your application. Feel free to contribute and post your implementation of the API in other language code in the bigbluebutton-dev mailing list.<br>
<br>
## JSP
The JSP library included with the BigBlueButton API demos is the reference implementation of the BigBlueButton API.  We use this library to test and demonstrate how to use the API.  You can try out the demos on the <a href='http://demo.bigbluebutton.org/demo/demo1.jsp'>BigBlueButton demo server</a>.  See <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/tree/master/bbb-api-demo/src/main/webapp/'>full source for the API demos</a>.<br>
<br>
## PHP
There is an unofficial PHP library in <a href='https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/tree/master/labs/bbb-api-php'>BigBlueButton Labs</a>.<br>
<br>
You need to enable the "allow_url_fopen" to "On" in your php.ini file so this example can work. Simply add/replace to your php.ini file :<br>
<br>
<code>allow_url_fopen = On</code>

For more examples of using PHP, see the source for the <a href='https://github.com/blindsidenetworks/moodle-mod_bigbluebuttonbn'>Moodle</a> and <a href='https://github.com/blindsidenetworks/wordpress-plugin_bigbluebutton'>WordPress</a> integrations.<br>
<br>
## Ruby
See the following <a href='https://github.com/mconf/bigbluebutton-api-ruby'>bigbluebutton-api-ruby</a> gem.<br>
<br>
<br>
## Testing API Calls
To help you create valid API calls, use <a href='http://mconf.org/m/tools/api-mate'>API Mate</a> which lets you interactively create API calls and test them against a public BigBlueButton server.<br>
<br>
# Desired Future Features

## Support for JSON/JSONP
<ul><li>It would be very nice to optionally allow JSON responses, and to support JSONP. This might allow for simpler integrations, even within static or almost-static webpages using JavaScript as the primary integration language. It should not be assumed that all users will be running custom software on a server and be able to process XML responses, etc.<br>
<ul><li>This being said, even within JavaScript there are simple ways to make the API call and process the returned XML (using jQuery and $.xml2json, for example)<br>

## Meeting event callbacks
<p>This may actually even be called a “reverse API” - where we define an interface that the third- party application can implement to be notified of events. This would not be necessary for the first version of the API, but would be a nice feature for future enhancements. More details:</p>
</li></ul></li><li>When major events happen within meetings, it would be very helpful to provide a way for third-party applications to be notified of these events. For instance, when a user joins a conference, they will presumably be joining through the third-party app. However, when they leave the conference, the app may have certain auditing that it needs to do to record their disconnect time, etc. If BBB could make some callback to the application, this would assist in such scenarios.<br>
</li><li>For example, the application may be able to register a URL that BBB would call with status updates. BBB would define an API that such an app would be required to implement at that URL.<br>
<ul><li>i.e. -BBB could call:<br>
</li><li><a href='http://third-party-app/bbb-integ.php?event=meetingEnded&meetingID=abcd'>http://third-party-app/bbb-integ.php?event=meetingEnded&amp;meetingID=abcd</a>
<ul><li><b><a href='http://third-party-app/bbb-integ.php?event=userLeft&userID=1234'>http://third-party-app/bbb-integ.php?event=userLeft&amp;userID=1234</a>
</li><li></b> <a href='http://third-party-app/bbb-integ.php?event=meetingEnded&meetingID=abcd'>http://third-party-app/bbb-integ.php?event=meetingEnded&amp;meetingID=abcd</a>
</li></ul></li></ul></li><li>We are already announcing events such as this within BBB through Redis Pubsub to communicate between the Red5 apps where these events originate and the API. It would probably not be very difficult to register additional listeners through the Spring Integration configuration that will make these HTTP calls for us for each event.</li></ul>

<br><br>
