---
layout: page
title: "HTML5 Tests"
category: labs
date: 2017-07-20 23:37:51
---

# Acceptance Testing in HTML Client. Getting Started

The test suite for HTML5 client is currently under active development. The following instructions will help you install all the necessary tools and libraries to run the exiting specs and start writing your own tests.

## Run Selenium Server

Assuming that you installed HTML5 client already, you should have all `npm` packages including `webdriver-manager` installed at this stage. We use `webdriver-manager` tool to keep track of the latest Selenium Server and Chrome / Firefox WebDrivers.

From the `bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton-html5` run:

```bash
$ ./node_modules/.bin/webdriver-manager update
```

This command will download the latest versions of the WebDrivers and Selenium.

Along with the Selenium and WebDrivers, you need to install the browsers itself.

### How to install Chrome:

```bash
$ wget -q -O - https://dl-ssl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub | sudo apt-key add -
$ sudo sh -c 'echo "deb [arch=amd64] http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main" >> /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google-chrome.list'
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install google-chrome-stable
```

### How to install Firefox:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install firefox
```

There are 3 browsers currently used in the test specs (multiremote mode): Chrome Stable/Mobile, Firefox Stable.

In order to run headless browser, we will use Xvfb display server:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install xvfb
```

At this point, you can run the Selenium server (from under `bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton-html5`):

```bash
$ xvfb-run ./node_modules/.bin/webdriver-manager start
```

If you get an error `Xvfb failed to start`, run it with an `-a` option (Xvfb will use another display if the current one is already in use):

```bash
$ xvfb-run -a ./node_modules/.bin/webdriver-manager start
```

Congratulations! You have Selenium server up and running. It is ready to handle your test cases. Now, keep the `xvfb-run` process running and continue in a new terminal session.

## Run the test specs

We use WebdriverIO interface to write the acceptance test cases. In order to execute the existing tests, you need to use `wdio` test runner. By default, it will look into any `*.spec.js` file inside the `/home/firstuser/dev/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton-html5/tests/webdriverio/specs` directory. You can change the location of the test specs by modifying the `wdio` config file: `wdio.conf.js` (inside the `webdriverio` directory).

Before proceeding any further, make sure HTML5 client is up and running.
Node.js installation is also required:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install nodejs-legacy
```

You can run all of the existing test specs with a single npm command:

```bash
$ cd /home/firstuser/dev/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton-html5
$ npm test
```

### Test suites

To make it easier to run a single specific set of tests, we group the specs into test suits. All the suits are defined in `wdio.conf.js`.

To run a single test suite, you need to pass its name to the npm script:

```bash
$ npm test -- --suite login
```

If you want to run a single spec (test file), `--spec` option can be used:

```bash
$ npm test -- --spec ./tests/webdriverio/specs/login.spec.js
```

## Visual Regression

Our test suite includes visual regression specs that can be execute separately with `npm run test-visual-regression` (desktop + mobile) or `npm run test-visual-regression-desktop` (desktop only). It will take screenshots of various views and components of the client, save them inside the `/screenshots` folder and put the failed cases into `/screenshots/diff`. The pictures will be put into subfolders sorted by browser name and screen resolution. By default, we use desktop Firefox, desktop Chrome and mobile Chrome (via mobile emulation). The screenshots are taken in 960x1200 and 1920x1200 resolutions.

The pictures inside `/screenshots/reference` are reference images the test runner uses to detect potential visual regressions. If there's a big UI change in the client, the images can be regenerated any time using `npm run generate-refs-visual-regression` or `npm run generate-refs-visual-regression-desktop`.
