---
layout: page
title: "Branding"
category: dev
date: 2017-01-20 10:49:32
---


# Introduction
BigBlueButton provides flexibility in the ability to customize the user interface using CSS.


# Details

The CSS file needs to be compiled before bbb-client can use it. In order to brand the client, you first need to check out the BigBlueButton source code. The instructions for this are outlined [developing](/dev/setup.html). If you are not a developer or are not comfortable with checking out the source and compiling it yourself, you can hire one of the companies that provide [commercial support](https://bigbluebutton.org/support) for BigBlueButton.

## Finding the files

Go to the directory where you've checkout out the source code. The branding files are located in the directory `bigbluebutton-client/branding/default/style/css/V2Theme.css`. 

Here you will find a file called `V2Theme.css`, among other files. `V2Theme.css` is the main stylesheet that is compiled within BigBlueButton client. The `assets` directory contains images and other files that are needed by the sample themes. The `org` directory contains programmatic skins for customised components. You may not need to change them for your own branding, so you can ignore them for now.

## Compiling the stylesheet

In order for Flash to load your CSS file, it needs to be compiled to an .swf format. There are two ways to do this:

  * Compiling using Flash Builder
  * Compiling using Ant
  
### Understand how theme works

The BigBlueButton client embeds `V2Theme` theme, this theme is compiled within the client. It is possible to change the embedded theme or to load it during runtime. If another file name is given in `skinning` tag of `config.xml` the application will load it at launch time.

### Compiling the application with its embedded theme

To change the embedded theme you need to change two files. The line is in the file `src/BigBlueButton.mxml`:

~~~xml
<fx:Style source="../branding/default/style/css/V2Theme.css" />
~~~

The second line to change is the `loadedSkin` property value in `src/org/bigbluebutton/core/services/SkinningService.as`:

~~~
private var loadedSkin:String = "V2Theme";
~~~

You can use your own theme name to compile it with the application, as example `myTheme`. After that you need to recompile the client.

### Compiling using Flash Builder

In Flash Builder, right click on the `V2Theme.css` file and check off 'Compile CSS to SWF'. This will compile the css file to swf, and the it should now appear as `bigbluebutton-client/client/branding/css/V2Theme.swf`

### Compiling using Ant

In the command line, go to the `bigbluebutton-client` root directory and type in:

~~~
ant branding -DthemeFile=V2Theme.css
~~~

If the build succeeds, you should be able to find the compiled .css file as `bigbluebutton-client/client/branding/css/V2Theme.css.swf`

If you would like to compile any other .css file in the branding directory, you can substitute the name of the file in the ant branding command, so for example:

~~~
ant branding -DthemeFile=myTheme.css
~~~

will compile the file myTheme.css and put it into `client/bin/branding/css/myTheme.css.swf`

Note that you should not need to move any images that you are using to the bin directory. As long as you are using `@Embed()` tags in your .css file, your images will be compiled directly into the resulting .swf file.

### Deploying the file to your production server

To deploy the theme file to your production server, find the client directory. 

You can run `bbb-conf --check` to find out where it is. Look at the part of the output which mentions where the client is. On a default install if will be something like:

~~~
/etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton
                      server name: example.bbb.org
                             port: 80
                   bbb-client dir: /var/www/bigbluebutton
~~~

In this case, the client is being loaded from `/var/www/bigbluebutton/client`. According to this configuration, if your theme file is named theme.css.swf, you need to place it there as:

~~~
/var/www/bigbluebutton/client/branding/css/theme.css.swf
~~~

And you need to edit the config file:

~~~
/var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml
~~~

to include the following line for the branding:

~~~xml
<skinning url="branding/css/theme.css.swf" />
~~~

## Editing the config.xml

To tell the BigBlueButton client to load your the compiled .swf file you just created, open the file bigbluebutton-client/client/conf/config.xml. Near the top of the file, you'll find the `skinning` tag. Tou need to change it this to:

~~~xml
<skinning url="branding/css/theme.swf" />
~~~

## Styling the client

All the usual rules for .css files hold. You can style the BigBlueButton client through CSS the same way you would style a web page.

If you're having trouble styling, or applying styles to a particular component in BigBlueButton, write to the [bigbluebutton-dev](http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev) mailing list with questions or suggestions on how to improve this tutorial.

## Branding options

Since version 2.0 new branding options introduced that can be found in `config.xml` under the `branding` tag.

~~~xml
<branding logo="logo.swf" copyright="&#169; 2017 &lt;u&gt;&lt;a href=&quot;http://www.bigbluebutton.org&quot; target=&quot;_blank&quot;&gt;http://www.bigbluebutton.org&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/u&gt; (build {0})" background="bbb_logo.png" toolbarColor="#F0F2F6" showQuote="true"/>
~~~

  * `logo` : The logo file name. It will be displayed in the higher left-hand corner. JPEG, PNG, BMP and SWF files are accepted. The recommended maximum height is 35 pixels. Default location is `/var/www/bigbluebutton/client/logo.swf`
  * `copyright` : The copyright mention that will be displayed in the lower left-hand corner of the footer. It accepts HTML but should be HTML-encoded. The `{0}` token will be replaced by the build number when the application is launched.
  * `background` : The background image name. It will be displayed behind the windows. JPEG, PNG, BMP and SWF files are accepted.
  * `toolbarColor` : The background colour of the top toolbar. Must be an hexadecimal value that starts with a `#`.
  * `showQuote` Show the initial quote on startup
