---
layout: page
title: "Install"
category: 2.2
#redirect_from: "/2.0/20install.html"
date: 2019-02-14 22:13:42
---

*** DRAFT -- Not yet ready for use ***

This document shows you how to install BigBlueButton 2.2-beta (referred hereafter as BigBlueButton), the latest release of BigBlueButton.

BigBlueButton is an open source web conferencing system for online learning.  BigBlueButton enables remote students to have a high-quality online learning experience.  

For the end user, BigBlueButton offers real-time sharing of audio, video, presentations, and screen.  To engage students, BigBlueButton offers the teacher/presenter/instructor interactive chat (public and private), multi-user whiteboard, shared notes, emojis, polling, and breakout rooms.  BigBlueButton records all content for later playback.

BigBlueButton is not your average web application.  Instead, it's a real-time system that has multiple server components that handle incoming media streams, incoming API calls, and process recordings in the background.

## Installation choices
Setting up a BigBlueButton server requires a bit planning to ensure the server meets the [minimum set of requirements](#minimum-server-requirements) and following a set of steps (detailed later in this document).  There is an extensive [troubleshooting guide](#troubleshooting) section to help you resolve common issues.

There are two choices for installing BigBlueButton
  * Go through the step-by-step install instructions in this guide
  * Install with a single command using [bbb-install.sh](https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bbb-install) 

When you interested to setup a BigBlueButton server quickly (or have already setup BigBlueButton servers in the past), `bbb-install.sh` will get you going.  It automates all the installation steps, but you still need to do some prep:
  * getting a dedicated server for BigBlueButton,
  * making sure the server meets BigBlueButton's minimum requirements, 
  * assigning a hostname (recommended), 
  * configuring the server's firewall (if needed)

While `bbb-install.sh` can get you going quickly, giving yourself a bit of time to go through the step-by-step install instructions will help you understand the components of BigBlueButton.  Also, if an error occurs during installation, the docs can help guide you through resolving the error.

## HTML5 client
We first released the HTML5 client in BigBlueButton 2.0.  This client targeted mobile users joining as viewers.  Moderators and presenters still used the Flash client.

With BigBlueButton 2.2, the updates to the HTML5 client make it possible to use for viewer, moderator, and presenter.  Using the HTML5 client means that users can use BigBlueButton without requiring plugins, Flash, Java, or mobile apps.    While the Flash client is still installed with BigBlueButton (and supported by the core developers), we recommend switching to using the HTML5 client in this release (the install steps show how to make the HTML5 client default).

The benefits of the HTML5 client include:
  * It loads over 2x faster than the Flash client
  * It uses WebRTC for higher-quality audio, video, and screen sharing 
  * Shared notes are more robust for mult-user editing by using EtherPad
  * The client is more accessible to screen readers
  * Presenters can share YouTube videos during the session

There are a few features in the Flash client that are still missing in the HTML5 client:
  * Live closed captioning
  * Ability for a viewer to close individual webcams
  * Layout manager (the HTML5 interface does not use overlapping windows)
  * Switch slides by selecting a thumbnail

If you don't need any of the above features, we recommend using the HTML5 client as your default client.  We've been running the HTML5 client for months now on [https://test.bigbluebutton.org/](https://test.bigbluebutton.org/).

## Getting help from the community

BigBlueButton has a very active open source community.  The project has been active for over 10 years and has a membership of over 2,500+ users on the developer mailing list.

If you encounter problems with installation, we recommend you first read through this guide, check out the [troubleshooting](/2.2/troubleshooting.html) section, the [open issues](https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/issues), and do a quick Google search for your error message.  If you don't find a resolution to your issue, make a post to the [bigbluebutton-setup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/bigbluebutton-setup) mailing list with a brief description of your issue along with any relevant error messages.  All the core developers hang out in bigbluebutton-setup and try to help out newcomers.  

When you post, please include the following inforamtion:

  * What is the version of BigBlueButton you are trying to install?
  * Does your server meet the minimum configuration required by BigBlueButton (Yes/No)?
  * Did you get errors during installation?
    * If so, what were the errors?
  * Did this installation previously work (i.e. were you upgrading to a later release)?
  * Did you make any custom changes to BigBlueButton outside of using `bbb-conf`?

If there is a genuine issue with BigBlueButton's installation, we want to know about it and fix it ASAP.

By providing the above informaiton you make it *much* easier for a someone to volunteer their time to help you out.  

# Before you install

Before jumping into the installation, make sure your server meets the minimum requiremewnts (listend below).

Before you start, we recommend setting up a 'clean' Ubuntu 16.04 64-bit server dedicated for BigBlueButton.  By 'clean' we mean the server should not have any previous web applications installed (such as plesk, webadmin, or apache).  By 'dedicated' we mean that this server won't be used for anything else besides BigBlueButton (and BigBlueButton-related applications such as Green Light).

## Minimum server requirements

The minimum server requirements for installing BigBlueButton are

  * Ubuntu 16.04 64-bit OS running Linux kernel 4.x
  * 4 GB of memory with swap enabled (8 GB of memory is better)
  * 4 CPU cores (8 is better)
  * TCP ports 80 and 443 are accessible
  * TCP port 7443 is accessible if you intend to configure SSL (recommended); otherwise, port 5066 is accessible
  * UDP ports 16384 - 32768 are accessible
  * Port 80 is **not** in use by another application

For production server we additionally recommend:

  * 500G of free disk space (or more) for recordings
  * 100 Mbits/sec bandwidth (symmetrical) or more
  * Dedicated (bare metal) hardware
  * IPV4 and IPV6 address

Why do we recommend a bare metal server?  BigBlueButton uses FreeSWITCH for processing of incoming audio packets and FreeSWITCH works best in a non-virtualized environment (see [FreeSWITCH recommended configurations](https://freeswitch.org/confluence/display/FREESWITCH/Performance+Testing+and+Configurations#PerformanceTestingandConfigurations-RecommendedConfigurations)).

If you are a developer installing locally, you can relax the server requirements a bit because you'll be the only one using the server.  You should be able to run BigBlueButton with
  * 2 GB of memory
  * 2 CPU cores
  * Installation on a local VM or LXC container
  * IPV4 address only (no hostname)

When using only an IPV4 address (no hostname), you need to use FireFox.  Chrome requires a hostname + SSL certificate for using web real-time commications (WebRTC), wheres FireFox will use WebRTC with only an IPV4 address.

If you want to install BigBlueButton on Amazon EC2, we recommend running BigBlueButton on a c5.xlarge (or greater CPU) instance.   These newer compute instensive instances offer very close to bare-metal performance.

For your users, see [minimum bandwidth requirements](/support/faq.html#what-are-the-minimum-bandwidth-requirements-for-a-user).

## Pre-installation checks

Got a Ubuntu 16.04 64-bit server ready for installation?  Great!  But, before jumping into the installation, let's do a few quick configuration checks to make sure the server configuration meets the minimum requirements.  Doing this now will prevent you from encountering common installation errors later in the docs.

First, check that the locale of the server is `en_US.UTF-8`.  

~~~
$ cat /etc/default/locale
LANG="en_US.UTF-8"
~~~

If you don't see `LANG="en_US.UTF-8"`, enter the following commands to set the local to `en_US.UTF-8`.

~~~
$ sudo apt-get install language-pack-en
$ sudo update-locale LANG=en_US.UTF-8
~~~

and then logout and login again to your SSH session -- this will reload the locale configuration for your session.  Run the above command `cat /etc/default/locale` again.  Verify you see only the single line `LANG="en_US.UTF-8"`.  

Note: If you see an additional line `LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8`, then remove the entry for `LC_ALL` from `/etc/default/locale` and logout and then log back in once more.

Next, check that your server has (at lest) 4G of memory using the command `free -h`.  Here's the output from one of our test servers.

~~~
$ free -h
              total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:            31G        5.9G        314M        1.8G         25G         21G
Swap:           31G        360M         31G
~~~

Here it shows 31G of memory (it is a server with 32 gigabytes of memory).

If you see a value for `Mem:` in the `total` column less than 4G (the above example is showing 31G), then your server has insufficient memory to run BigBlueButton.  You need to increase the server's memory to (at least) 4G.

Next, check that the server has Ubuntu is 16.04.  

~~~
$  cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=16.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=xenial
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 16.04.x LTS"
~~~

Next, check that your server is running the 64-bit version of Ubuntu 16.04.

~~~
$ uname -m
x86_64
~~~

Next, check that your server supports IPV6.

~~~
$ ip addr | grep inet6
inet6 ::1/128 scope host
...
~~~

If you do not see the line `inet6 ::1/128 scope host` then after you install BigBlueButton you will need to modify the configuration for FreeSWITCH to [disable support for IPV6](#freeswitch-fails-to-bind-to-port-8021).

Next, check that your server is running Linux 4.x.

~~~
$ uname -r
4.15.0-38-generic
~~~

Next, check that your server has (at least) 4 CPU cores

~~~
$ cat /proc/cpuinfo | awk '/^processor/{print $3}' | wc -l
4
~~~

Note: BigBlueButton will **not** run on a 2.6 Kernel (such as Linux 2.6.32-042stab133.2 on x86_64 on OpenVZ VPS).

Sometimes we get asked "Why are you only supporting Ubuntu 16.04 64-bit)?".  The answer is based on choosing quality over quantity.  Long ago we concluded that its better for the project to have solid, well-tested, well-documented installation for a specific version of Linux that works really, really well than to try and support may variants of Linux and have none of them work well.  


## Have a Hostname and SSL certificate

(If you are a developer setting up BigBlueButton on a local VM using an IPV4 address and intend to use FireFox for testing, then you can likely skip this section.)

We recommend assigning your BigBlueButton server a fully qualified domain name (FQDN), such as `bigbluebutton.example.com`, and configuring the server with secure sockets layer (SSL) certificate.  Doing this will enable nginx, the web server that gets installed with BigBlueButton, to serve content via secure hypertext transfer protocol (HTTPS).  Without HTTPS enabled some browsers (such as Chrome) will not let the use share their web cam or microphone.  Also, without HTTPS enabled, some browsers will complain about insecure content.

In short, on any server used in production, setup of a domain name and valid SSL certificate is a must.

For obtaining a domain name, there are many good domain name registrars such as [GoDadday](https://godaddy.com/) and [Network Solutions](https://www.networksolutions.com/).  

For obtaining a SSL certificate there are many options, see [obtain an SSL certificate](#obtain-an-ssl-certificate).


## Configure the firewall (if required)

Do you have a firewall between you and your users?  If so, see [configuring your firewall](/2.2/configure-firewall).

# Installation

Before you begin the installation, here's a quick checklist to make sure you are ready:

   1. You have a Ubuntu 16.04 64-bit server that meets the [minimum specifications](#before-you-install).
   2. If the server is behind a firewall, you have [configured your firewall](/2.2/configure-firewall) to forward the appropriate ports to the BigBlueButton server (and tested that connections are getting through).
   3. You have a fully qualified domain name (such as `bigbluebutton.example.com`) that resolves to your BigBlueButton server's IP address (or the IP address of your firewall).
   4. You have a valid SSL certificate for the hostname (or intend to obtain one with Lets Encrypt)

If you are a developer setting up BigBlueButton for development or testing on a local VM with and intend to use FireFox, you can skip (2), (3), and (4).  As menitoned earlier, FireFox supports WebRTC without a requiring an hostname + SSL certificate.

At this point, your ready to install.  You have two options: 

  * Option #1: Use [bbb-install.sh](https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bbb-install) to install pretty much everything you'll need with a single command
  * Go through the step-by-step instructions below. 

If you've opted to go thorugh the step-by-step instructions, grab a cup of your favorite beverage and let's begin!

## 1. Update your server

First, make sure your server is up-to-date with latest packages and security updates.   

Login to your server via SSH.  You need to have an account that can execute commands as root (via `sudo`).  Once logged in, first ensure that you have `xenail multiverse` in your `/etc/apt/sources.list` by doing the following

~~~
$ grep "multiverse" /etc/apt/sources.list
~~~

After entering the above command you should see an uncommented line for the multiverse repository, which may look like either this

~~~
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu xenial multiverse
~~~

or this

~~~
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu xenial main restricted universe multiverse
~~~

Don't worry if your hostname in the URL is different from the above, what's important is you see an uncommented link that contains `multiverse`.  If you don't, run the following command to add the multiverse repository to your `/etc/apt/sources.list` file.

~~~
$ echo "deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ xenial multiverse" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
~~~

If you are a developer installing BigBlueButton on a VM for testing and development, some of BigBlueButton's components, such as Tomcat, need a source of entropy when starting up.  In a VM the available entropy can run low Tomcat can block for a long periods of time (sometimes minutes) before finishing its statup.  To give the VM lots of entropy, install a packaged called `haveged` (a simple entropy daemon):

~~~
$ sudo apt-get install haveged
~~~

If you are curious on the details behind entropy, see this [link](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-setup-additional-entropy-for-cloud-servers-using-haveged).

There are two applications needed by BigBlueButton: `ffmpeg` (create recordings) and `yq` (update YAML files).  The default version of `ffmpeg` in Ubuntu 16.04 is old and `yq` does not exist in the default repositories.  Therefore, before you install BigBlueButton, you need to add the following personal package archives (PPA) to your server to ensure you get the proper versions installed.

~~~
add-apt-repository ppa:jonathonf/ffmpeg-4 -y
add-apt-repository ppa:rmescandon/yq -y
~~~

Next, upgrade your server to the latest packages (and security fixes).

~~~
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
~~~

If you haven't updated in a while, `apt-get` may recommend you reboot your server after `dist-upgrade` finishes.  Do the reboot now before proceeding to the next step.

BigBlueButton HTML5 client uses MongoDB, a very efficent database used to synchronize state of the clients.  To install MongoDB, do the following 

~~~
$ sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv 0C49F3730359A14518585931BC711F9BA15703C6
$ echo "deb [ arch=amd64,arm64 ] http://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu xenial/mongodb-org/3.4 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-3.4.list
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org curl
~~~

BigBlueButton HTML5 client uses nodejs.  To install nodejs, do the following

~~~
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_8.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
~~~


## 2. Install apt-get key for BigBlueButton repository

All packages for BigBlueButton are digitally signed with the project's public key.  Before installing BigBlueButton, you need to add the project's public key to your server so `apt-get` can validate the signed packages.  To do this, enter the following command:

~~~
$ wget https://ubuntu.bigbluebutton.org/repo/bigbluebutton.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add -
~~~

Next, so your server needs to know where to download the BigBlueButton packages.  To configure the package repository, enter the following command:

Note: We will be replacing `XXX` with the repository URL shortly.

~~~
$ echo "deb https://ubuntu.bigbluebutton.org/XXX/ bigbluebutton-xenial main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/bigbluebutton.list
~~~

Next, run `apt-get` to pull down the links to the latest BigBlueButton packages.

~~~
$ sudo apt-get update
~~~


## 3.  Install BigBlueButton

We're now ready to install BigBlueButton.  Enter the following two commands:

~~~
$ sudo apt-get install bigbluebutton
$ sudo apt-get install bbb-html5
~~~

When prompted to proceed, type 'Y' and press ENTER.

Note: During install, you may see an error "Failure to download extra data files" for the `ttf-mscorefonts-installer` package.  This is a [known issue](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aptitude/+bug/1543280) with Ubuntu 16.04.  You can ignore this error.

If the installation exits with an error before finishing, go through the setup checks in [Before you install](#before-you-install) to see if there is a configuration error with the server.  If you find an resolve any configuration errors, you can attempt to finish the installation using the command `sudo apt-get install -f`.

After the installation finishes, if you want to make the HTML5 client the default client (recommended), then edit `/usr/share/bbb-web/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties` and set `attendeesJoinViaHTML5Client` and `moderatorsJoinViaHTML5Client` to `true`.

~~~
# Force all attendees to join the meeting using the HTML5 client
attendeesJoinViaHTML5Client=true

# Force all moderators to join the meeting using the HTML5 client
moderatorsJoinViaHTML5Client=true
~~~

Restart BigBlueButton's components with the following command:

~~~
$ sudo bbb-conf --restart
~~~

Next, run the BigBlueButton configuration utility `bbb-conf --check`.  This utility checks BigBlueButton's configuration and looks for any potential errors that may cause problems when running.

You should see output similar to the following (here we've already setup the server with a hostname `droplet-923.example.com`):

~~~bash
$ sudo bbb-conf --check

BigBlueButton Server 2.2.0-beta (XXX)
                    Kernel version: 4.4.0-142-generic
                      Distribution: Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS (64-bit)
                            Memory: 8174 MB
                         CPU cores: 4

/usr/share/bbb-web/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties (bbb-web)
       bigbluebutton.web.serverURL: https://droplet-923.example.com
                defaultGuestPolicy: ALWAYS_ACCEPT

/etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton (nginx)
                       server name: droplet-923.example.com
                              port: 80, [::]:80
                              port: 443 ssl
                    bbb-client dir: /var/www/bigbluebutton

/var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml (bbb-client)
                Port test (tunnel): rtmp://droplet-923.example.com
                              red5: droplet-923.example.com
              useWebrtcIfAvailable: true

/opt/freeswitch/etc/freeswitch/vars.xml (FreeSWITCH)
                       local_ip_v4: 159.203.59.145
                   external_rtp_ip: stun:stun.freeswitch.org
                   external_sip_ip: stun:stun.freeswitch.org

/opt/freeswitch/etc/freeswitch/sip_profiles/external.xml (FreeSWITCH)
                        ext-rtp-ip: $${local_ip_v4}
                        ext-sip-ip: $${local_ip_v4}
                        ws-binding: :5066
                       wss-binding: 159.203.59.145:7443

/usr/local/bigbluebutton/core/scripts/bigbluebutton.yml (record and playback)
                     playback_host: droplet-923.example.com
                 playback_protocol: https
                            ffmpeg: 4.1.1-0york1~16.04

/etc/bigbluebutton/nginx/sip.nginx (sip.nginx)
                        proxy_pass: https://159.203.59.145:7443

/usr/local/bigbluebutton/bbb-webrtc-sfu/config/default.yml (Kurento SFU)
                        kurento.ip: 159.203.59.145
                       kurento.url: ws://droplet-923.example.com:8888/kurento
                    localIpAddress: 159.203.59.145
               recordScreenSharing: true
                     recordWebcams: true
                  codec_video_main: H264
               codec_video_content: H264

/usr/share/meteor/bundle/programs/server/assets/app/config/settings.yml (HTML5 client)
                             build: 277
                        kurentoUrl: wss://droplet-923.example.com/bbb-webrtc-sfu
                  enableListenOnly: true


** Potential problems described below **
~~~   

Any output that followed `Potential problems` **may** indicate configuration errors or installation errors.  In many cases, the messages will give you recommendations on how to resolve the issue.  

At this point, your BigBlueButton server is listening to an IP address.  If you are a developer, you can [extract the shared secret](#extract-the-shared-secret) for making [API](/dev/api.html) calls.  

You can install the API demos (next step) to give you an quick front-end to test the features.

## 4. Install API demos (optional)

The API demos are a set of Java Server Pages (JSP) that implement a web-based interface to test the BigBlueButton API.

To install the API examples, enter the following command:

~~~
$ sudo apt-get install bbb-demo
~~~

Once installed, you'll be able to enter your name on the home page and click 'Join'.  This will join you into the default meeting called "Demo Meeting".  You can also check out the other examples by clicking the `API examples` link on the home page.  These are the same API demos installed at [http://demo.bigbluebutton.org](http://demo.bigbluebutton.org/demo/demo1.jsp).

To learn more about integrating BigBlueButton with your application, check out the [BigBlueButton API documentation](http://docs.bigbluebutton.org/dev/api.html).

If this server is intended for production, you will want to [remove the API demos](#remove-the-api-demos).


## 5. Restart your server

You can restart and check your BigBlueButton server at any time using the commands

~~~
$ sudo bbb-conf --restart
$ sudo bbb-conf --check
~~~

The `bbb-conf --check` scans some of the log files for error messages.  If you've done a number of configuration changes on your server, you can clear out all the log files and check the server using the `--clean` option, as in

~~~
$ sudo bbb-conf --clean
$ sudo bbb-conf --check
~~~

Again, any output that followed `Potential problems` **may** indicate configuration errors or installation errors.  In many cases, the messages will give you recommendations on how to resolve the issue.  

Notice that `sudo bbb-conf --check` warns you the API demos are installed, which enable anyone with access the server to launch a session (see [removing API demos](#remove-the-api-demos)).

If you see other warning messages check out the [troubleshooting installation](#troubleshooting).

If you intend to use this server for production, you should

  * [Assign the server with a hostname](#assign-a-hostname)
  * [Install a SSL certificate to support HTTPS](#configure-ssl-on-your-bigbluebutton-server)
  * [Configure the server to work behind a firewall](/2.2/configure-firewall) (if needed)
  * [Setup a TURN server](/2.2/setup-turn-server.html) to enable users behind restrictive firewalls to use WebRTC


# Assign a hostname

For any production BigBlueButton server, you need to assign it a hostname.  If you have not done so already, you need to purchase a domain name from a domain name service (DNS) provider and, using the provider's web interface, configure an `A record` to point to your server's IP address (see the documentation for your DNS provider on how to do this step).  

After the `A record` is setup, enter the following command and `EXTERNAL_HOST_NAME` with the hostname of your BigBlueButton server.

~~~
$ ping EXTERNAL_HOST_NAME
~~~

Here's an example of the output using `demo.bigbluebutton.org`:

~~~
$ ping demo.bigbluebutton.org
PING demo.bigbluebutton.org (146.20.105.32) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 146.20.105.32: icmp_seq=1 ttl=44 time=27.5 ms
~~~

Note: If your server doesn't allow ICMP traffic, then no bytes will be returned, but you should see your server's IP address returned in the brackets `()` after the hostname.

If the hostname is resolving to the server's IP address (or the IP address of the firewall), next use the BigBlueButton configuration utility `bbb-conf` to update BigBlueButton's configuration files to use this hostname.

~~~
$ sudo bbb-conf --setip HOSTNAME
~~~

For example, if your hostname was `bigbluebutton.example.com`, the command would be

~~~
$ sudo bbb-conf --setip bigbluebutton.example.com
~~~

At this point, you have BigBlueButton server listening to an IP address (or hostname) and responding to API requests.  However, if you tried to login from the server's default page with a browser, you would get an error `HTTP Status 404 - /demo/demo1.jsp`.  

Why?  The BigBlueButton server comes ready to list to API calls, but doesn't have a front-end installed by default.  You can easily install the API demos to test the server.  We'll cover installing the API demos in the next step.

However, you don't need the API demos if you intend to use another [front-end](http://bigbluebutton.org/integrations/) for the BigBlueButton server, for example, if you have a Moodle server and you want to configure the [BigBlueButton Moodle Plugin](https://moodle.org/plugins/mod_bigbluebuttonbn) to access the BigBlueButton server.


# Configure SSL on your BigBlueButton server

You'll want to add SSL support to your BigBlueButton server to make it more secure.  Also, as of Chrome 47, Chrome users will be unable to share their microphone via WebRTC unless BigBlueButton is loaded via HTTPS.  

## Configure BigBlueButton to use a domain name

Please run all commands in this section as **root**.

In order to obtain a valid SSL certificate for your server, you must have already [assigned a hostname](#assign-a-hostname) to your BigBlueButton server.

For the purposes of documentation, we will be using the domain name "example.com", with a BigBlueButton server hosted at "bigbluebutton.example.com".

Once you have a domain name and have configured it with a DNS host, add an A record pointing to your server. You can then use the [bbb-conf setip command](/install/bbb-conf.html) to configure BigBlueButton to use that domain name, for example:

~~~
# bbb-conf --setip bigbluebutton.example.com
~~~

## Obtain an SSL certificate

Before you can configure nginx on BigBlueButton to server content via HTTPS, you need to have a valid SSL certificate. A domain validated (sometimes called "class 1") certificate with a 2048 bit RSA key and SHA-256 checksum is the current recommended minimum, and it should be sufficient.

There are a number of providers that you could obtain a certificate from. Many domain name sales companies also offer certificates.

Some well known large providers of SSL certificates include Comodo, Symantec, GoDaddy, GlobalSign, and DigiCert. In addition, free SSL certificates are available from StartSSL and CACert, with some caveats: StartSSL certificates can't be revoked without paying a service fee, and most people do not have the root for CACert installed in their web browser.  

Each provider will give you a series of steps for generating the certificate, but they will normally include generating a private key and certificate request locally, sending the certificate request to be signed, and then receiving back the signed certificate after they have performed any required verification steps.

To install the certificate in BigBlueButton, you will need to have files for the certificate, private key, and any intermediate certificates in PEM format.

If you don't yet have a SSL certificate and your server is on the Internet, you can use Let's Encrypt to obtain a free renewable SSL certificate (expires after 90 days, but are automatically renewable).  If you want to use Let's Encrypt, then skip to [setup using Let's Encrypt](#using-lets-encrypt).

## Configure nginx to use HTTPS
Depending on your certificate authority (CA), you should now have 2 or more files, as follows:

* Certificate
* Private key
* Intermediate certificate (there may be more than one, or could be none)

The next step is to install the files on the server.

Create the directory `/etc/nginx/ssl`:

~~~
# mkdir /etc/nginx/ssl
~~~

And now create the private key file for nginx to use (replace the hostname in the filename with your own). In addition, fix the permissions so that only root can read the private key:

<pre><code># cat &gt;/etc/nginx/ssl/bigbluebutton.example.com.key &lt;&lt;'END'
<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">Paste the contents of your key file here</span>
END
chmod 0600 /etc/nginx/ssl/bigbluebutton.example.com.key</code></pre>

And the certificate file. Note that nginx needs your server certificate and the list of intermediate certificates together in one file (replace the hostname in the filename with your own):

<pre><code># cat &gt;/etc/nginx/ssl/bigbluebutton.example.com.crt &lt;&lt;'END'
<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">Paste (in order) the contents of the following files:
  1. The signed certificate from the CA
  2. In order, each intermediate certificate provided by the CA (but do not include the root).</span>
END</code></pre>

In addition, we'll generate a set of 2048-bit diffie-hellman parameters to improve security for some types of ciphers. This step can take several minutes to complete, particularly if run on a virtual machine.

~~~
# openssl dhparam -out /etc/nginx/ssl/dhp-2048.pem 2048
~~~

Now we can edit the nginx configuration to use SSL. Edit the file `/etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton` to add the marked lines. Ensure that you're using the correct filenames to match the certificate and key files you created above.

<pre><code>server {
  server_name bigbluebutton.example.com;
  listen 80;
  listen [::]:80;
  <span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">listen 443 ssl;
  listen [::]:443 ssl;

  ssl_certificate /etc/nginx/ssl/bigbluebutton.example.com.crt;
  ssl_certificate_key /etc/nginx/ssl/bigbluebutton.example.com.key;
  ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:10m;
  ssl_session_timeout 10m;
  ssl_protocols TLSv1 TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;
  ssl_ciphers "ECDH+AESGCM:DH+AESGCM:ECDH+AES256:DH+AES256:ECDH+AES128:DH+AES:ECDH+3DES:DH+3DES:RSA+AESGCM:RSA+AES:RSA+3DES:!aNULL:!MD5:!DSS:!AES256";
  ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;
  ssl_dhparam /etc/nginx/ssl/dhp-2048.pem;</span>
  </code></pre>

For reference, note that the SSL settings used above are based on those proposed in [https://hynek.me/articles/hardening-your-web-servers-ssl-ciphers/](https://hynek.me/articles/hardening-your-web-servers-ssl-ciphers/) and provide support for all modern browsers (including IE8, but not IE6, on Windows XP). Please note that recommended SSL settings are subject to change as new vulnerabilities are found.

## Configure FreeSWITCH for using SSL

Edit the file `/opt/freeswitch/conf/sip_profiles/external.xml` and look for a line containing "ws-binding". Add a line for a `wss-binding` with the port set to `7443`.

<pre><code>    &lt;param name="tls-version" value="$${sip_tls_version}"/&gt;
    &lt;param name="ws-binding" value=":5066"/&gt;
    <span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">&lt;param name="wss-binding" value=":7443"/&gt;</span></code></pre>

If you have a firewall on your server and have opened port 5066, change the rule to now open port 7443 instead.  

Also, if your BigBlueButton server is behind a firewall, you may need to speciify the `value` with an external IP address `EXTERNAL_IP_ADDRESS:7443` to avoid getting an error 1002 in the client.  For more details see [Configure BigBlueButton behind a firewall](#configure-bigbluebutton-behind-a-firewall).

Next, the websocket forwarding address in nginx.  Edit the file `/etc/bigbluebutton/nginx/sip.nginx` and change the protocol and port on the proxy_pass line as shown:

<pre><code>location /ws {
  proxy_pass <span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">https</span>://203.0.113.1:<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">7443</span>;
  proxy_http_version 1.1;
  proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
  proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";
  proxy_read_timeout 6h;
  proxy_send_timeout 6h;
  client_body_timeout 6h;
  send_timeout 6h;
}</code></pre>


## Configure BigBlueButton to load session via HTTPS

With nginx now configured to use SSL, the next step is to configure FreeSWITCH to use HTTPS for initiating an audio connection.

Edit `/var/lib/tomcat7/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties` and update the property `bigbluebutton.web.serverURL` to use HTTPS:

<pre><code>#----------------------------------------------------
# This URL is where the BBB client is accessible. When a user successfully
# enters a name and password, she is redirected here to load the client.
bigbluebutton.web.serverURL=<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">https</span>://bigbluebutton.example.com</code></pre>

Next, edit the file `/usr/share/red5/webapps/screenshare/WEB-INF/screenshare.properties` and update the property `jnlpUrl` and `jnlpFile` to HTTPS:

<pre><code>streamBaseUrl=rtmp://bigbluebutton.example.com/screenshare
jnlpUrl=<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">https</span>://bigbluebutton.example.com/screenshare
jnlpFile=<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">https</span>://bigbluebutton.example.com/screenshare/screenshare.jnlp</code></pre>


You must also update the file `/var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml` to tell the BigBlueButton client to load components via HTTPS.  You can do the update with a single command

~~~
# sed -e 's|http://|https://|g' -i /var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml
~~~

If you would ever need to revert this change, you can run the reverse command:

~~~
# sed -e 's|https://|http://|g' -i /var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml
~~~


Open `/usr/share/meteor/bundle/programs/server/assets/app/config/settings.yml` editing and change:

~~~
    wsUrl: ws://droplet-923.meetbbb.com/bbb-webrtc-sfu
~~~

to

~~~
    wssUrl: ws://droplet-923.meetbbb.com/bbb-webrtc-sfu
~~~

Next, modify the creation of recordings so they are served via HTTPS. Edit `/usr/local/bigbluebutton/core/scripts/bigbluebutton.yml` and change the value for playback_protocol as follows:

<pre><code>playback_protocol: <span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">https</span>
</code></pre>

If you have installed the API demos in [step 4](#4-install-api-demos-optional), edit `/var/lib/tomcat7/webapps/demo/bbb_api_conf.jsp` and change the value of `BigBlueButtonURL` use HTTPS.

<pre><code>// This is the URL for the BigBlueButton server
String BigBlueButtonURL = "<span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">https</span>://bigbluebutton.example.com/bigbluebutton/";
</code></pre>

Finally, to apply all of the configuration changes made, you must restart all components of BigBlueButton:

~~~
# bbb-conf --restart
~~~

## Test your HTTPS configuration

In order to ensure you didn't make any mistakes that could cause security compromises, please test your HTTPS configuration. A well-respected site that can do a series of automated tests is [https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/) - simply enter your server's hostname, optionally check the "Do not show results" check box if you would like to keep it private, then Submit.

At time of writing, the configuration shown on this page should achieve an "A" ranking in the SSL Labs test page.


## Using Let's Encrypt

If you have a domain name assigned to your BigBlueButton server (i.e. bigbluebutton.example.com) and the server is on the Internet, then can use Let's Encrypt to obtain a free SSL certificates.

First, install Let's Encrypt configuration tool.  Please run all commands in this section <b>root</b>.

~~~
# apt-get install letsencrypt
~~~

Next, generate a set of 2048-bit diffie-hellman parameters to improve security for some types of ciphers.

~~~
# mkdir /etc/nginx/ssl
# openssl dhparam -out /etc/nginx/ssl/dhp-2048.pem 2048
~~~

Before you can generate a certificate on your server, you need to configure BigBlueButton to use the intended hostname.  If you have not already done so, use the following command (replace `bigbluebutton.example.com` with your own DNS name), to configure the BigBlueButton server with your hostname.

~~~
# bbb-conf --setip bigbluebutton.example.com
~~~

Next, request a SSL certificate from Let's Encrypt using the `letsencrypt` tool.  Again, replace `bigbluebutton.example.com` with your hostname.

~~~
# letsencrypt --webroot -w /var/www/bigbluebutton-default/ -d bigbluebutton.example.com certonly

IMPORTANT NOTES:
 - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/bigbluebutton.example.com/fullchain.pem. Your cert will
   expire on 20XX-YY-ZZ. To obtain a new version of the certificate in
   the future, simply run Let's Encrypt again.
 - If you like Let's Encrypt, please consider supporting our work by:

   Donating to ISRG / Let's Encrypt:   https://letsencrypt.org/donate
   Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le

~~~

This will generate the following files

~~~
# ls /etc/letsencrypt/live/bigbluebutton.example.com/
cert.pem  chain.pem  fullchain.pem  privkey.pem
~~~

Next, edit the nginx configuration file `/etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton` and add the marked lines below. Ensure that you’re using the correct filenames to match the certificate and key files you created above (again, replace `bigbluebutton.example.com` with your hostname).

<pre><code>server {
  server_name bigbluebutton.example.com;
  listen 80;
  listen [::]:80;
  <span style="color:#980000;font-weight:bold">listen 443 ssl;
  listen [::]:443 ssl;
  ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/bigbluebutton.example.com/fullchain.pem;
  ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/bigbluebutton.example.com/privkey.pem;
  ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:10m;
  ssl_session_timeout 10m;
  ssl_protocols TLSv1 TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;
  ssl_ciphers "ECDH+AESGCM:DH+AESGCM:ECDH+AES256:DH+AES256:ECDH+AES128:DH+AES:ECDH+3DES:DH+3DES:RSA+AESGCM:RSA+AES:RSA+3DES:!aNULL:!MD5:!DSS:!AES256";
  ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;
  ssl_dhparam /etc/nginx/ssl/dhp-2048.pem;</span>
  </code></pre>

The Let's Encrypte certificates are good for 90 days and can be automatically renewed.  To automatically request a renewal once a week, edit the crontab file for root.

~~~
# sudo crontab -e
~~~

And add the following two lines at the bottom:

~~~
30 2 * * 1 /usr/bin/letsencrypt renew >> /var/log/le-renew.log
35 2 * * 1 /bin/systemctl reload nginx
~~~

These two directives will execute the letsencrypt-auto renew command every Monday at 2:30 am, and then reload Nginx at 2:35am (so the renewed certificate will be used). The output will be piped to a log file located at /var/log/le-renewal.log, so you can always check it later.

To finish the SSL configuration, continue with the steps at [Configure FreeSWITCH to user WebRTC](#configure-freeswitch-for-using-ssl).

# Customization
BigBlueButton is a very customizable system, see [cusotmizable options](/2.2/customize).  

# Troubleshooting
If you encounter any problems in the installation, see [troubleshooting](/2.2/troubleshooting).
