---
layout: page
title: "2.3"
category: "dev"
date: 2020-07-20 11:42:28
---

This page is intended for administrators and developers that want to install and develop on BigBlueButton 2.3-dev (referred hereafter as "BigBlueButton 2.3"), the upcoming version of BigBlueButton that runs on Ubuntu 18.04 64-bit.

BigBlueButton 2.3 is still under active development.  We actually started working on it late last year, but due to Covid-19 we paused the development of 2.3 and focused on making improvements to 2.2.  Since then we've periodically merged the updates to 2.2 into BigBlueButton 2.3.

We know that many community members have been asking about and looking forward to moving to Ubuntu 18.04.  We are too.

As a first step, as of July 2020, we are releasing an early preview ["alpha" version](https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/releases/tag/v2.3-alpha-1) of BigBlueButton 2.3.  This release includes about 500 commits of changes over 2.2.  In this regard, BigBlueButton 2.3 builds upon and further improves the stability and performance of the previous versions.  

Again, BigBlueButton 2.3 is under active development.  It will take time to settle down the new features, but we can move quickly with your help in testing and shining a light on those hard to find bugs.

## Installation
BigBlueButton 2.3 requires the same [minimal requirements]( https://docs.bigbluebutton.org/2.2/install.html#minimum-server-requirements) as 2.2 with one notable exception: you need to install it on Ubuntu 18.04.

To setup BigBlueButton 2.3, we recommend using [bbb-install tool](https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bbb-install) and passing the version `-v bionic-230-dev`.

The following command will get you a snapshot build of BigBlueButton 2.3 with the API examples (`-a`) and the default firewall (`-w`).

`# wget -qO- https://ubuntu.bigbluebutton.org/bbb-install.sh | bash -s -- -w -v bionic-230-dev -a -w`

After installation you should see the following packages (your version numbers may be slightly different).

~~~
# dpkg -l | grep bbb
ii  bbb-apps-akka                        2.3.0-2                                     all          BigBlueButton Apps (Akka)
ii  bbb-config                           1:2.3.0-5                                   amd64        BigBlueButton configuration utilities
ii  bbb-demo                             1:2.3.0-2                                   amd64        BigBlueButton API demos
ii  bbb-etherpad                         1:2.3.0-1                                   amd64        The EtherPad Lite components for BigBlueButton
ii  bbb-freeswitch-core                  2:2.3.0-2                                   amd64        BigBlueButton build of FreeSWITCH
ii  bbb-freeswitch-sounds                1:1.6.7-1                                   amd64        FreeSWITCH Sounds
ii  bbb-fsesl-akka                       2.3.0-1                                     all          BigBlueButton FS-ESL (Akka)
ii  bbb-html5                            1:2.3.0-1008                                amd64        The HTML5 components for BigBlueButton
ii  bbb-mkclean                          1:0.8.7-1                                   amd64        Clean and optimize Matroska and WebM files
ii  bbb-playback-presentation            1:2.3.0-2                                   amd64        BigBluebutton playback of presentation
ii  bbb-record-core                      1:2.3.0-3                                   amd64        BigBlueButton record and playback
ii  bbb-transcode-akka                   2.3.0-1                                     all          BigBlueButton Transcoder
ii  bbb-web                              1:2.3.0-1                                   amd64        BigBlueButton API
ii  bbb-webrtc-sfu                       1:2.3.0-1                                   amd64        BigBlueButton WebRTC SFU
ii  bigbluebutton                        1:2.3.0-4                                   amd64        Open source web conferencing platform (bbb)
!!!

## Development
In order to set up a development environment for 2.3 you can follow the [steps from 2.2](https://docs.bigbluebutton.org/2.2/dev.html)
However, Ubuntu 18.04 ships with Java 11 set as default option but we need to set Java 8 to be default (subject to change)

If you see something similar while trying to compile bbb-common-messages or bbb-apps-akka:

```
[error] /home/firstuser/dev/bigbluebutton/bbb-common-message/src/main/java/org/bigbluebutton/common2/redis/RedisStorageService.java:25:1: package com.sun.org.apache.xpath.internal.operations is not visible
[error]   (package com.sun.org.apache.xpath.internal.operations is declared in module java.xml, which does not export it)
[error] import com.sun.org.apache.xpath.internal.operations.Bool;
```

Most likely you have a different version of Java. Follow the solution described here: 
https://askubuntu.com/a/740782
Namely `update-java-alternatives --list`


## Contribution
If you notice issues with BigBlueButton 2.3 [not mentioned below], please report them in the [GitHub Issues section](https://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/issues) clearly indicating that the issue is in version 2.3, and also indicating the client build number ( `dpkg -l | grep bbb-html5` ) or three dot menu in the client -> About


## Notes
- as of July 10, 2020 the document conversion using liberoffice is still being updated to run within Docker, so at the moment any office conversions will fail.  Upload of PDF slides still convert fine.



